margin c lizard isn't an actual lizard
it's a kind of a sea slug that dwells
close to the water surface
it swims upside down and somersaults to
get food
and let's admit it it looks very cute
squat anemone shrimp
is also known as a dancer shrimp because
of its peculiar behavior
when agitated it raises its bottom above
its head and
does a little dance divers also say it
readily jumps on their hands and cleans
them
pygmy seahorse has only recently been
discovered thanks to its outstanding
camouflage skills
it hides so well in the reefs that it
becomes almost invisible
harry squat lobster lives in reefs
hiding from predators and crevices
you'll instantly notice the drastic
difference between its whitish hairs
and vibrant pink and violet claws
cryptic
teardrop crab is a decorator crab a
species that attach things they find in
the sea to themselves this one is
usually covered in living sponge
tourists love flamingo tongue sea snails
for their pretty colors
thinking it's a shell but in fact the
shell is quite dull and hidden
underneath colorful soft tissues they'll
eat softer toxic parts of coral
and store their toxins to protect
themselves
skeleton shrimp could be the stuff of
nightmares if it weren't so tiny
as it is it looks like a stick insect
but almost completely transparent
boxer crab doesn't do boxing as its name
might imply
but it sure does look like a boxer it
carries a live anemone in either of its
claws
and catches food with their help another
creepy crawler on this list is a
terrible claw lobster
and its claws are indeed terrible
despite the tiny size of the animal
its right claw is as long as half the
lobster's body
feel the smell of snow and hot cocoa
christmas tree worms would bring the
spirit of winter holidays
even to the depths of the ocean the
hairs growing from the stem of their
body
look like many fur trees hence the name
orangutan crab looks like its land
dwelling primate namesake and miniature
thanks to it being a decorator crab
species it gathers plankton and algae
and attaches them to its body scarlet
stripe
cleaning shrimp is a natural hitchhiker
it stands on the sea floor and waves its
long antenna for
fish and sea animals to go down and pick
it up
then it pays for the ride by cleaning
the host from bacteria and plankton
if you dive in the ocean at night you
might be lucky enough to see
how orange ball corillomorph blooms in
the dark
but make sure to be quick because as
soon as you turn on your flashlight to
take a good look
it will retract its tubes back into
itself
despite hairy octopus looking like it's
forgotten to comb its hair in the
morning
it's actually its skin that's sticking
in every direction
predators have a harder time realizing
where the octopus itself
is this way i guess sea angels might
look and sound pretty cute
but they're fierce predators their
favorite prey are sea butterflies
they lay mucus traps for them and wait
in ambush
banded shrimp or banded boxing shrimp
was really aptly named
it's got bands of color all over its
body and always stands in a boxer-like
ready-to-strike pose brown line paper
bubble
is another sea slug and it definitely
looks like one
it's got a special ability though it can
quickly burrow holes in the sea floor
hiding from predators inside of them
electric file clam looks like it has
electric currents running through its
body
but that's an illusion the clam's
underbelly is white
and when the rim quickly unfolds it
flashes the color
pipe horse is a weird mix between a sea
horse and a pipe fish
scientists think it might be a missing
evolutionary link between the two
squidworm showed ocean researchers it's
a newly discovered species
that looks much like an earthworm in
structure but has distinctive features
of its own
such as frilly appendages it uses as a
nose
cockatoo squids or glass squids are a
large
genus whose members can reach quite
impressive size
yet one thing they have in common is
that their bodies are transparent
and the internal organs glow in the dark
helitreffe's mass side jellyfish is
normally invisible in the dark abyss
where it dwells
but when exposed to light it will
reflect it and shine beautifully
sea salts are often confused with
jellyfish although they're closer to
portuguese man or
they're very quick to mature growing
from newborns to adults
in less than 48 hours decorator crab
attaches parts of coral reefs it dwells
in to its body
thanks to its adhesive properties
persian carpet flatworm looks indeed
like a carpet
despite being very small by comparison
able to become both male and female it
really doesn't mate with other flat
worms
rather it fights them for the right to
bear the posterity
it's red hand fish it has front fins
that look like human hands
which it uses to crawl the ocean floor
ornate ghost pipe fish not only looks
like something from a sci-fi movie
but is also the only kind of pipe fish
that lets its females bear their
offspring
barrel eye fish is arguably the
strangest creature you might meet in the
ocean depths
its body is just like any other fish but
the head
is completely transparent and the eyes
are inside the head
covered by green lids the bulbs on its
snout are
in fact nostrils giant hatchet fish
is only giant by comparison it's the
largest species of its kin
the flat hatchet-like body and huge
bulbous eyes
will probably chase you in your
nightmares for a long time afterwards
a fish that can first insult you and
then bite
sarcastic fringehead is a very
aggressive thing
and when it opens its mouth it looks
like the predator from the iconic movie
yikes hooded nudibranch is
weird all by itself but if you take it
out of the water
which i wouldn't recommend myself you'll
sense a sweet fruity smell it emanates
abalone is a strange but edible and
quite delicious
mollusk that's a delicacy in many
coastal countries
it's singular powerful foot can glue it
tight to rocks
did i mention it's delicious dwarf
lantern shark
is as little as it is mysterious it's by
far the smallest shark in the world
dwelling deep in the darkest parts of
the ocean
feather star is a spectacle to behold
when it swims in water
it does so by gracefully flapping its
feather-like limbs
blue-ringed octopus doesn't have blue
rings until you spook it
if you do it'll immediately take a
defensive stance
and show its electric blue patterns
black swallower might be small
but make no mistake it could easily gulp
down your favorite puppy
it can open its mouth extremely wide
allowing it to swallow prey
twice its size pink see-through fantasia
has a romantic name
and for a reason its body is absolutely
translucent
dumbo octopus is a cute and harmless
little critter that got its name
you guessed it thanks to its flippers
which look like elephant ears
despite its eerie name vampire squid
doesn't drink blood
its tentacles are connected by webbing
that allows the animal to cover itself
like in a cowl
portuguese manta war looks pretty
similar to jellyfish
but belongs to another genus if you see
it
never touch it its tentacles are
venomous
giant isopod is basically an overgrown
underwater dust mite
it grows really huge compared to its
land dwelling counterparts
and it also has a whole music album
dedicated to it
leafy sea dragon was discovered pretty
much by accident
it looks like a piece of algae floating
water and you won't be able to see it
until it starts to run away from you
red-lipped batfish is a fashionista of
the marine kingdom
it walks around the sea floor like a
queen and flashes
luscious red lips whalefish
long confused scientists into thinking
they were a separate species
in the end it turned out that they're
females while males and offspring look
entirely different cookie cutter shark
is a living horror with lower teeth
being big and sharp
while the upper ones are much smaller
when its teeth fall off
the shark eats them to maintain calcium
levels
lump sucker gets its name from the hind
fins
they help the fish cling to the seabed
northern stargazer is definitely not
something you'd wish to see on the ocean
floor
this horrid creature hides its body
under the sand
leaving its face above to wait for prey
flying ganard looks like it's flying
indeed when agitated
it spreads the wings to seem bigger and
scare off predators
brown garden eels live in large colonies
that are called
gardens and it's telling since they
stick out vertically out of their
burrows in the sand
frog fish is a master of disguise
rivaled only by
octopuses it can take the shape of
almost anything on the sea bottom
lizard island octopus is otherwise
called mimic octopus
because it can mimic the looks and
behavior of up to 15
different fish and animals gulper eel
has an easily distended belly
that allows it to swallow prey twice its
size in a single monstrous
bite australian go shark isn't really
even a shark
but it's a bony fish it's also a living
fossil
it hasn't changed within the last 400
million years
[Music]
coconut crabs are hermit crabs allowed
to grow too much
their preferred food are coconuts but
they can also hunt down lizards and even
large birds
tasseled wobe-gong is a carpet shark
which means it lies low on the bottom of
the sea
and patiently waits for its prey to come
by
slender snipe eel is a slim and long
creature
that's still a mystery for marine
scientists it has at least 750 bones in
its spine
which is much more than any other animal
in the world
arus orthacana isn't a single organism
it's a colony of transparent bells
attached to a bright orange stick
frilled shark is another living fossil
it has rows upon
rows of short razor sharp teeth directed
inside for
better grip c-pen has a lot of varieties
but most of them look indeed like a pen
or a quill
the similarity is even more striking
when the animal has a water-filled bulb
that anchors it to the floor
bobbit worm hides underneath the seabed
and snaps at the prey when it touches
its antenna
don't ever touch it with your hand
unless you want it to become
permanently numb megamouth shark is a
filter feeder
and it's friendly to humans although its
huge mouth can look quite threatening
like basking shark it swims with a mouth
constantly wide open
as if it was on twitter